# Base Starter

This is an immensely adaptable Flutter starter, crafted with an ideally predetermined layout and encompassing libraries that can be used across a vast array of applications.

To take advantage of this repository, simply click on the "Use this template" button. The subsequent instructions will guide you through the process of integrating and deploying this starter within your distinct projects.

Based on the Sizzle Starter.

## Features

- 🔥 Rapid installation process
- 🧜 Designed to be flexible, easy to expand, and simple to maintain
- 📦 Assortment of reliable and tested libraries
- 🚛 GitHub Actions and GitLab CI pre-configured
- 🚀 Cutting-edge, feature-oriented architecture
- 📌 Comprehensive documentation and exciting roadmap ahead
- 🐛 Bug reporting, error tracking and analytical capabilities
- 😌 Themes and additional amenities...

## Table Of Contents

- [Base Starter](#base-starter)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Table Of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Initialization](#initialization)
  - [Themes](#themes)
  - [Database](#database)
  - [Example Apps](#example-apps)
  - [Recommended libraries](#recommended-libraries)
  - [Destructive Libraries](#destructive-libraries)
  - [Resources](#resources)
  - [How to guides](#how-to-guides)
  - [Star History](#star-history)
  - [Credits](#credits)

## Initialization

### Initialization Steps

Here are the steps to initialize the dependencies. It is a map of steps, where the key is the name of the step and the value is a function that fills the `initialization_progress` model. The steps are executed in the order in which they are specified in the map, which gives you the ability to access the results of the previous steps.

### Initialization Progress

```dart
abstract interface class Dependencies {
  /// Shared preferences
  abstract final SharedPreferences sharedPreferences;

  /// App router
  abstract final AppRouter router;

  /// Freeze dependencies, so they cannot be modified
  Dependencies freeze();
}
```

In `dependencies` you can store the results of the steps. There is mutable a model that is passed to each step and then immutable one is returned to the `InitializationProcessor` which maps it to the immutable model.

### Initialization Processor

`InitializationProcessor` as said previously is controlling all the stuff. It is responsible for running the steps, storing the result of each and mapping it to the immutable model. It returns `InitializationResult` with spent time, immutable progress model, etc. Later, all the results are delivered by inherited widgets and can be accessed from BuildContext, see `dependencies_scope` which is in the widget folder.

### Dependencies Scope

`DependenciesScope` is inherited widget that provides access to `Dependendencies`. It is a great DI in a flutter way which gives you a possibility to access your initialized dependencies from context which exists in each widget.

## Themes

Color scheme is generated by [Material Theme Builder](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/1034969338659738588/Material-Theme-Builder). Then, generated code is added to `core/theme/color_schemes.dart`. Then, pretty simple theme datas are passed to MaterialApp in `app_context.dart`. This way you can easily change the color scheme of the app with many pros:

- Creating own design system in Figma
- Support of dynamic color schemes
- Easy to change the color scheme
- All Material widgets that come with Flutter are already supported and use the color scheme

### Theme Scope

`ThemeScope` is an inherited widget that enables users to operate themes. It supports custom themes and system themes as well as the standard ones. The chosen theme is saved in the local memory (shared_preferences) See material_context, theme_scope, app_theme and home_screen for more details.

## Database

`Base starter` comes with drift and its executors preinstalled in `packages/database`. It is **recommended** to use drift for database management.

If you are building for the *Web* too, you should go to [https://drift.simonbinder.eu/web/](https://drift.simonbinder.eu/web/) and follow the instructions.

If you don't need the database, just remove the dependency.

## How to guides

### How to run

1. Click `Use this template` button
2. Clone this repository via `git clone`
3. Decide which platforms your app will be running on
4. Run `flutter create . --org com.yourdomain --platforms ios,android,... or nothing if you are writing an app for each platform` in your terminal.
5. Run `flutter pub get` to install all dependencies
6. Run `flutter run` to run your app
7. Here you go, start coding!

### How to add a new dependency

**This section describes how to add a new dependency to your app.** Please, check the [initialization](#initialization) section before.

1. Open `lib/src/feature/initialization/model/dependencies.dart`
2. Add new dependency to `DependenciesMutable` and `DependenciesImmutable`
3. Go to `lib/src/feature/initialization/logic/initialization_steps.dart`
4. Add new entry to the map and write down all the logic needed to initialize your dependency and set it in the `DependenciesMutable` object
5. Now, you can use the dependency in the app receiving it from context.

### How do add flavors correctly:
You can use template from `very_good_cli``.